In addressing our theme
“Is Your Best Good Enough?”
I’d like to start by reading Galatians 6:4.
It says: “But let each one
“examine his own actions,
“and then he will have cause for rejoicing
“in regard to himself alone,
and not in comparison with the other person.”
We’re told to “examine [our] own actions.”
So ask yourself: ‘How am I doing spiritually?
‘Am I happy with my attendance
at Christian meetings?
‘Do I participate
by sharing meaningful comments as able?
‘How about my personal study of the Bible?
‘Let me examine
my involvement in the ministry.
‘Could I do better in preparing
for my return visits?
‘Do I conduct any Bible studies
with interested ones?
If so, am I content with what I am doing?’
In effect, you’re asking yourself,
‘Is my best good enough?’
We might see others in the congregation
that are doing more than we are.
But then we look back at Galatians 6:4 again,
and it clearly said
that I should not compare
myself with the other person.
So we could quickly assume
that we’re doing what we can,
reasoning that it’s good enough.
But let’s not forget
the first part of the verse.
We are to “examine [our] own actions.”
We need to compare what we are doing
with what we personally could be doing.
We need to be active
and not become
self-satisfied and overconfident.
First Corinthians 10:12
provides this warning:
“So let the one who thinks he is standing
beware that he does not fall.”
But you may say: ‘I’m doing my best!
What more can I do?’
Take a good look at your best—scrutinize it.
Examine very closely all you’re doing
with the time that you have.
Can mundane activity be replaced
with theocratic activity?
What do you see?
Is your best good enough?
It may be; it may not be.
It depends on one’s outlook.
What are some examples?
A runner in a race—he practices; trains;
eats the right things;
keeps a lean, healthy body;
wears the best running shoes; and so forth.
He gives his best
but loses the race to someone faster.
His best was not good enough.
Why?
It was compared to
whether he was faster than his competitors.
Yohan Blake lost to Usain Bolt
in a 100-meter event in 2012
by just a fraction of a second.
He did his best,
but his best wasn’t good enough.
A mother and daughter
—the daughter is
in the second grade at school.
She brings home a picture she drew in class.
The teacher had put a B- on the picture.
The daughter shows it to her mother,
and the mother crosses out the B-
and puts an A+ on it.
She then tapes the picture
on the refrigerator.
What is the difference
between the teacher and the mother?
The teacher compares the student
to other classmates of her age.
The mother grades her according to her best,
not in comparison with others.
Jehovah does not compare your best
with the best of others.
Let’s look at Psalm 103:14.
When Jehovah examines
our spiritual accomplishments,
what’s one of his measuring sticks?
Psalm 103:14:
“For he well knows how we are formed,
remembering that we are dust.”
“Dust” is used figuratively,
indicating mankind’s frailty and lowliness.
By “remembering that we are dust,”
Jehovah never asks more of us
than we can give.
However, he expects us to obey his commands
to the best of our own ability.
Mark 12:30
—you can likely quote it from memory.
Verse 30 says:
“You must love Jehovah your God
“with your whole heart
“and with your whole soul
“and with your whole mind
and with your whole strength.”
This embraces everything we have
—all that we are.
You go in service;
you use “your whole strength”
to accomplish it.
That’s commendable.
But what good is it to use our whole strength
to go in service if our mind
cannot direct our tongue
to say the right things
when we talk to a person?
‘I used a lot
‘of my strength walking
‘from door to door,
climbing stairs, and so forth.
‘And yet, no one let me get past
my introduction.’
Question: Was that
the best introduction you could give?
How long have you been using
that introduction?
Would a new one help?
Would using “your whole mind”
by means of advance preparation
result in making your best even better?
Have you tried to use
some of the introductions
demonstrated at our midweek meetings
or some of those found
in the Reasoning From the Scriptures  book,
pages 9-15?
What does the householder see
in your face
when she opens the door?
Is your countenance
radiating pleasantness and kindness?
Does she see good news or bad news?
Do you look happy or sad?
The message
we’re commissioned to deliver today
is the “good news of the Kingdom.”
We expect it to change
sometime in the near future.
Do the best you can until you know better.
Then when you know better, you can do better.
You attend all congregation meetings
and pay rapt attention with your mind.
You’re to be commended.
But is that all that’s required
to love Jehovah with our whole mind?
Are we meditating on the knowledge
that we receive at our meetings
in order to draw close to Jehovah?
James 4:8 says:
“Draw close to God,
and he will draw close to you.”
That’s one benefit we receive
from our meeting attendance.
Let’s read Hebrews 10:24, 25.
This is another benefit
of regular meeting attendance.
In this way, we give
and receive encouragement.
Verses 24 and 25 read:
“And let us consider one another
“so as to incite to love and fine works,
“not forsaking our meeting together,
“as some have the custom,
“but encouraging one another,
“and all the more so
as you see the day drawing near.”
Do you give comments at meetings?
Are they well-prepared?
Do they encourage your brothers and sisters?
Are you giving your best?
If so, then your best is good enough.
What about your personal study
or family worship?
Are you doing your best?
Is your best good enough?
“I read all The Watchtowers  and Awakes!
when they come out,” you say.
It goes without saying that that’s good.
What did you find in what you read
that will deepen your love
and appreciation for Jehovah
and draw you closer to him?
Do you use your whole mind
to meditate and continue to think about it,
thus spiking it down deep into your heart?
Some things we learn
may not be immediately applicable
but can be regurgitated
and applied later as needed.
Are you giving serious attention
to the spiritual needs
of your wife and children?
Yes, you have family worship most weeks.
That’s commendable.
Do you prepare well for it
or just throw something together
at the last minute?
What if your wife
just threw something on the table
for dinner each evening
without giving any thought
to the health needs of the family?
Think: Is your best good enough?
We can slop a pig, and he’ll enjoy it.
But give the same garbage
to a cow, and she’ll ignore it.
Why are we considering
“Is Your Best Good Enough?”
It’s only as a reminder
to look at what we think to be our best
in what we’re doing
for ourselves, our families,
and our spiritual brothers and sisters.
And remember, our best is not compared
with the best of another brother or sister.
Only Jehovah knows
when we’re doing our best.
He is a righteous and fair Judge.
Our knowledge, even of ourself,
can be faulty because of inherited sin.
Therefore, it’s wisdom on our part
to keep examining ourselves
to see where we might improve.
So is your best good enough?
I’d like to think it is.
What do you think?